Charter v6

Turn Revised And Modernized (tram)
----------------------------------

Traversal Using Relays around NAT (TURN) was published as RFC 5766 in April
2010.  Until recently the protocol had only a rather limited deployment.  This
is primarily because its primary use case is as one of the NAT traversal
methods of the Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE) framework (RFC
5245).  This inherent dependency on ICE combined with the fact that ICE itself
was slow to achieve widespread adoption because other alternative mechanisms
were historically used by the VoIP industry were the causes of the initial
lack of interest.  This situation has changed drastically as ICE, and
consequently TURN, are mandatory to implement in WebRTC, which is a set of
technologies developed at the IETF and W3C aiming to enable Real Time
Communication on the Web.

Because of the ubiquity of the Web and of the new opportunities created by the
arrival of WebRTC, there is a renewed interest in TURN and ICE, as evidenced by
the recent work updating the ICE framework, as well as standardizing the URIs
used to access a STUN or TURN server.

The goal of the TRAM Working Group is to consolidate the various initiatives
to update TURN and STUN, including the definition of new transport and
authentication mechanisms that make STUN and TURN more suitable for the WebRTC
environment.  The Working Group will closely coordinate with the appropriate
Working Groups, including RTCWEB, MMUSIC, and HTTPBIS.

The current list of deliverable is:

- Gap analysis for traversal of HTTP proxies

  Candidate draft: draft-hutton-rtcweb-nat-firewall-considerations

  The working gorup will analyze what is missing in IETF protocols for enabling
  TURN connectivity from networks where the only way out is through an HTTP
  proxy. Potential new protocol work, if any is necessary, will be identified.

- Protocol for traversal of HTTP proxies

  Candidate draft: TBD, draft-chenxin-behave-turn-websocket is one of several
  proposals

  This deliverable depends on the gap analysis from the previous deliverable. No
  protocol work will be done unless the analysis finds a gap and recommends that
  the working group fill it.

- New authentication mechanism for TURN

  Problem analysis: draft-reddy-behave-turn-auth
  Candidate draft: draft-uberti-behave-turn-rest, OAuth has also been suggeted

  The current authentication mechanism for TURN, which is reused from STUN, has
  been designed with a SIP account database in mind. The new RTCWEB uses, which
  are mostly based on web applications, do not fit that model. A new
  authentication mechanism with the web in mind, will be created.

- TURN server auto-discovery mechanism for enterprise and ISPs

  Candidate draft: TBD

  Current TURN server discovery is based on the presence of SRV DNS record. This
  record is usually under the administrative control of the application or
  service provider, not the enterprise or the ISP on whose network the client is
  situated. Enterprise or ISPs wishing to provide their own TURN server, in an
  attempt at reducing so-called "triangle routing", need a new auto-discovery
  mechanism.

- STUN-bis

  Candidate draft: TBD

  A new revision of RFC 5389 will contain:

  - Various bug fixes
  - STUN hash algorithm agility (currently only SHA-1 is allowed)

- TURN-bis

  Candidate draft: TBD

  A new revision of RFC 5766 will contain:

  - Various bug fixes
  - Support for multi-tenant servers
    (Servers always send the same REALM attribute. No realm negotiation phase
     currently exists.)

Goals and Milestones:

[TBD]

